# Automatic-COVID-19-detection
In this project, a new model for automatic COVID-19 detection using raw chest CT- scan images is presented. The model is developed to provide accurate diagnostics for binary classification (COVID vs. No-Findings) and multi-class classification (COVID vs. No- Findings vs. Pneumonia). 


The novel coronavirus 2019 (COVID-2019), which first appeared in Wuhan city of China in December 2019, spread rapidly around the world and became a pandemic. It has caused a devastating effect on both daily lives, public health, and the global economy. It is critical to detect the positive cases as early as possible so as to prevent the further spread of this epidemic and to quickly treat affected patients. The need for auxiliary diagnostic tools has increased as there are no accurate automated toolkits available. Recent findings obtained using radiology imaging techniques suggest that such images contain salient information about the COVID-19 virus. Application of advanced artificial intelligence (AI) techniques coupled with radiological imaging can be helpful for the accurate detection of this disease, and can also be assistive to overcome the problem of a lack of specialized physicians in remote villages.
In this project, a new model for automatic COVID-19 detection using raw chest CT- scan images is presented. The model is developed to provide accurate diagnostics for binary classification (COVID vs. No-Findings) and multi-class classification (COVID vs. No- Findings vs. Pneumonia). The Dark Net model was used in the study as a classifier for the you only look once (YOLO) real time object detection system. There are implementing multiple convolutional layers and introducing different filtering on each layer. The model can be employed to assist radiologists in validating their initial screening, and can also be employed via cloud to immediately screen patients.
